I think we're now going to learn why we
have certain rules in software
engineering. GitHub about to hit two
nines of availability.
89.9
This is The experience that you get from
using an agent is basically being on
drugs. People will discriminate
against code submissions based on what
model or and or coding harness generated
them.
Welcome back to a state of attentive
coding
with me Armin and Ben.
I'm still resident vibe coder at
Arendelle.
We're building agents in the email
space.
And you can go to levels.com and sort of
sign up for an early alpha. And uh yeah,
and and trying all kinds of agent dig
engineering tools. Where you Ben? Yeah,
that that's like a huge understatement
by the way. So my name is Ben Vinegar
and software 20 years. Used to be used
to write a lot of JavaScript. Now what
is it what does it even matter what
language you write anymore? Do a lot of
attentive coding as well. I have my own
startup called Modem. We're building
like an AI auto triage PM for developer
teams. And this show, this is now the
fifth time we've done this. This show is
really just
um I don't know industry commentary
uh keeping tabs on the slot machines
keeping them in check. What do you what
do you think Armin? How would you
describe this? It's like the future of
software engineering is broken software
and we're observing it. I do wonder sort
of little aside like imagine for a
second I was I was reading a lot about
um the industrial revolution and and and
sort of the the change of like tailoring
and and weaving and everything. And you
have present-day historians who are
investigating the industrial revolution
and looking for evidence that was there
but early signs of
of like how it changed.
Will there be eventually a chapter on
how vibe coding changed the world uh or
like destroyed software engineering and
then people going to pry for like every
kind of evidence of early discussions on
that topic.
And come across one or two podcasts. I
don't know. Yeah, hopefully we're not
like around the fire uh in some
dystopian future talking about the
before times in this version. We're not
we're not doomers. Are we doomers? No,
you don't have to be a doomer. It's just
want to be part of history, right?
Yeah, okay. All right. The way that
we've been doing this is we make monthly
predictions usually at the end and then
we revisit them at the start. You know,
I don't know. We didn't have the
greatest um
the greatest set of predictions. We're
going to we're going to add one in
there. A topic we got into briefly was
do you still use the IDE? Will you
continue to use the IDE? It's a month
later with you know, that was just kind
of like thrown at me by Armin. I think
you posed the question and if I
reflected it was true that it had come
down quite a bit. Has anything changed
for you? Uh it has come up a little bit.
I'm spending more time in the editor now
but mostly just for diff reviews. I came
to appreciate uh I think a good diff
tool.
Um and right now I'm just using a Visual
Studio plugin for that. But in general I
think that even more people using the
IDE way less than last month. And the
launch of Cursor 3 I think is a good
sign for this because they're basically
ditching the IDE. All right, some
context is that Cursor 3 came out I
don't know a day or two ago before we
recorded this. So like I just briefly
scanned the blog post announcement.
There's a lot of words in there.
I missed the detail about ditching the
IDE. Is that is that your take? I mean
from what I can tell Cursor 3 is
basically a thing that looks like
ChatGPT and you write your thingy in it
and it dispatches an agent. From what I
can tell in Cursor 3, if there is still
Visual Studio thing happening somewhere,
it's at least not in the screenshots
anymore. It's almost certainly in there.
It's just a question of how do you start
writer or
um
This is just hearsay cuz I haven't used
it.
>> No, I haven't used it. I just I I looked
at the screenshots and there was not a
single thing that looked like an editor
in there. Mhm.
>> Uh actually maybe maybe that was one but
like it's just as a diff review. So
um Slightly relatedly, did you see also
this week Linear change its like home
screen and it also has like a a ChatGPT
box. Did you see that? I have a lot of
thoughts on Linear doing agent stuff now
but
I don't think we should go into that.
Yeah, we also as a rule for this show we
like to only talk about things that we
reasonably understand. And so as you
know, a brand new product stuff that has
just dropped like we haven't had a time
to develop an opinion. I don't know. Uh
but just commenting that
across different product lines, you
know, giving you a text box as a gateway
it seems to be a growing trend. Is that
at least fair? Yeah, and they all look
very uninspirationally exactly like
ChatGPT. That is I think um surprising
to me. I thought like everybody would
try to just like look different but no.
Sidebar on the left, chat box on the
bottom. That's that's the meta. That's
the meta.
I I'm going to answer this question. And
by the way, I think you and I may have
may have arrived at the same place here
which is
um
I had moved quite a bit to sort of
agent-driven development where I was
mostly talking to the box, right?
Talking to the machine. And maybe to
help explain this to people like what
that looks like I think is different for
different people. For me if I'm building
like a feature first of all, there's
like you know, we start with a plan and
there's a lot of questions like Q&A
which is just like how about these other
approaches? Have you considered this? So
I'm sort of like usually like vibing on
the plan and asking questions to make
sure I understand what's happening. And
then after the patch is done, I would
often ask continue to ask questions like
what did you discover? How does this
work? Um something I love to do is
actually like can you make some ASCII
diagrams to help me understand like what
what control flow changes? Um does that
by the way, does that match maybe a
little bit of the way
you work? I don't know. Yeah, I mean
I feel like this month for me has been a
pretty significant shift because I now
handwrite code again a little bit. Okay.
And I definitely and and as a
for good reasons I would say.
>> [laughter]
>> But
um
I'm way more hands-off at the moment. Um
that is sort of like a momentary change
just based on um so I'm way more
hands-on and that is mostly just because
of a sort of a situation we have built
ourselves into where I sort of have to
build myself out of.
Um which requires more hand-holding. Um
but um in general I think like it I
would work like it just wrapped.
So [snorts]
I thought a little bit about what I was
missing from the IDE and I think it was
code review. So even I think I I would
reasonably have faith in in the LLM to
give like uh accurately represent the
mechanical work that it has done. But I
don't trust it on the architecture. I
don't trust it on the sort of like
higher level understanding if that makes
sense, right? And so that's like what
the questions would be. But then I
decided I think even this dialogue that
we're going to get into later was no, I
need to see the code I need to have more
confidence in the code. So that led to
me building my own diff review tool to
make it all feel like a little bit more
like I had an IDE. And that turned into
my little side project which is Hunk
which does which um yeah, I I don't like
plugging. I really don't like plugging.
But I guess what I was looking for was
can I get can I have a better diff
experience that I'm used to from the
IDEs cuz I think that they do have the
best diff experience and that's what
often brings me back to the IDE is the
review. Um So feeling like there are
there's maybe there's like there's
tooling that we haven't we haven't
gotten to quite yet. Like there's still
a lot of fertile ground here and
um
I don't know what my point here is. I
guess it's I do think you're losing
something from the IDE. I'm trying to
figure out how to get it back on the
terminal.
>> I think I think the problem is sort of
that you kind of like it's
there's like when you review a thing,
it's almost like part of it will be
comments that have to go back to the
agent and part of it will be comments go
back to your brain and a part of them
will comment
>> Yes.
>> another reviewer. And there's like not a
real good tool that sort of allows you
to sort of like delineate these
comments.
Um
but I feel like
I don't know if I want the diff tool. I
feel like that could actually be the
future of the IDE. I don't know. But
but I also want to edit code I think. Um
so it's a bit of everything.
>> [snorts]
>> One of my key ideas with Hunk was that
the agent can annotate the diff which I
do think is quite useful.
And I think that's taking I guess a
little bit of what I just described
which is I often talk with the agent
about to help explain the code. Right?
And I wanted to kind of like overlay
that over the diff so that my you know,
to to get the code and what's going on
into my brain in a more effective way. I
think Hunk's okay. I think it's a work
in progress and I'm actually really
excited that like people are
contributing to this. But I also think
this whole idea is like a fertile
there's a lot more exploration probably
everywhere. Does that seem like fair
game? And I think a lot of people are
exploring now. I I've definitely seen
that [snorts] would be my prediction
that like a lot of diff review tools
will come up in the next
next [snorts] month or so.
I know that even Mario Mario built one.
Like Mario showed one with me recently.
I think I saw one for Claude which is
you know,
reply reply on the on the diff and that
goes back into Claude like we're also
seeing some of that, right? Last episode
we talked about vibe slops vibe slops?
No. Slop forks.
Slop forks, right? And that was about V
test and um
Claude built a browser. Did they build a
browser? They built a Man, I can't even
keep track. And then we kind of jokingly
said what will be the most notable open
source slop fork. And we had like a bit
of a back and forth. Armin, you said
maybe someone would make like a Linux
kernel
um or an open source re-implementation.
>> don't know if we if I like was willing
to say like it's going to be next month
I think like but
>> That's true.
But but I think we we do expect there to
be significant forks of pre-existing
either open source or proprietary
software.
Uh I think we talked about like word,
Photoshop.
Um
I don't think that has fully emerged
yet, but there are some kind of
interesting software that came out
recently or sort of slope adjacent
forks, I guess.
Um so they're definitely happening now.
Tell me more. I see which ones are you
thinking of? Cloudflare, which is the
re-implementation. I think we talked
about this last time. We did talk about
that. Yeah.
Then um it's not really a slope fork,
but it is a slope with compatibility
import from um Cloudflare for um
basically a new kind of WordPress, M
dash, I think they called it.
It's just [laughter] it's a completely
new CMS, but it's compatible with
WordPress, so it can import WordPress.
Um
so it's starting to happen for sure.
Notable, by the way, that V next was
created by Cloudflare and that was sort
of the one of the principal slope forks.
And now M dash also created by slope
forks was Oh my god.
And now M dash also created by
Cloudflare, another slope fork. Is it
the case that actually a lot of people
are doing this or is it just Cloudflare?
>> [snorts]
>> So here's an interesting thing. I was
thinking about this quite a bit because
like Cloudflare obviously has a lot of
slope forks
or at least they have an interest in it.
And if you think about like how the
infrastructure works, it sort of lends
itself really well to it because they
don't run nodes. They run like a like a
pretend node. So a lot of software just
doesn't run on Cloudflare without
changes. And and so now they can sort of
put the clanker to it and say like make
it work on Cloudflare. So
I think there's um
Um yeah, there's there's for sure
something happening now. Um
But I don't know. It's It's hard to say.
We somehow take this for granted. What
Could you do like 60 seconds on it's not
like Cloudflare does not run node. They
run
um something else on V8. How would you
describe that? So this actually does
relate a little bit to agents.
Cloudflare runs V8 isolates. V8 is the
JavaScript engine that also runs the
node. And V8 isolates are ways to
isolate different JavaScript
environments from each other. And they
in order for them to be safe, quote
unquote, you have to also put some
operating system complexity around it so
that each process that runs on
Cloudflare is sort of separated from
another one.
But they chose that um because their
security concept is V8
isolates,
they cannot run
full node compatib- compatibility
because um they have to put some extra
restrictions on it and they never tried
to be fully node compatible. So that
they're mostly node compatible now, but
you for instance you can only run a web
assembly, you cannot run a binary node
extension
um or like a binary V8 extension.
And so a lot of open source projects
just don't like if you try to require
their JavaScript library on node, you
will run into oh, you cannot eval a
function or you cannot use this binary
dependency. So like a lot of them just
don't run on there.
And then historically that meant that if
you were trying to run stuff on
Cloudflare, you would run into all of
these problems. But now agents sort of
maneuver around them quite well. And the
hypothetical benefit for Cloudflare and
or the users on Cloudflare is that it's
kind of a cheaper to run. So there's
some
Yeah.
Maybe this will finally make Cloudflare
popular. I don't know.
>> [laughter]
>> I mean Cloudflare is popular, but for
the CDN, not necessarily for the
workers, I would say.
Cloudflare has its own sort of unique
variant deployment runtime.
And so they're sort of like a a
recipient, a beneficiary of this idea
that they can rewrite software to sort
of like adhere to their stack. Here's
another limitation they have, by the
way, cuz these are running on workers.
Workers also have like a pretty low
memory limit is another one.
Um
so you you can't load like a big piece
of software into these workers. It could
be like 128 megs of RAM, maybe 256 on if
you pay for it. Uh totally, you know,
don't cite those exact numbers for me.
There's there's also like sort of
different plan limits or whatever, but
overall they're pretty low. And I know
that I hit these limits. It's also
possible that you can just have like too
many imports and you just you just
import too much JavaScript code and
um you really don't have much memory to
work with. But on the other hand,
because they invested so much into the
V8 isolates, they have very cheap
isolation.
Which is now also great if you run
things like code mod MCPs or you want to
have a sandbox for your agent. Like all
of a sudden there's a there's a huge
demand for their kind of tech. So
there's I think that like
my my suspicion is that anyone who
currently runs something that looks like
sandbox-y, sandbox layer-ish, a new kind
of customer is emerging there. And I
don't think that
my maybe a prediction should be that
other people in a similar situation that
operate similar kind of services
might also suddenly start slope working.
Cuz there are other companies too,
right? There's um
uh Model, there is Rivet, there is
Convex, I think. So [snorts] there
there's a bunch of them, right? Um
Here's another way of looking at it. We
might see more um
runtime variants as a result of this, if
this makes sense, because
um you know, companies or or people
might be dis- might have been dissuaded
in the past from pursuing alternative
runtimes because the sort of
the value of the compatibility layer of
node, you know, everything runs on node
or whatever, you know, Python, choose
choose whatever you want. Um you know,
you'd be dissuaded from it. That being
said, in a world where you could maybe
reasonably rewrite some software, maybe
that'll actually lead to um other kind
of platforms? Does that seem possible? I
I I I think like I think we'll see
more of that in more of the programming
languages. I'm pretty sure we're going
to see that. Cuz like it's it's we're
definitely hitting some problems with
some of the existing infrastructure and
so like the cost of trying something new
just goes down. So
I
I think it's it's possible to to take
that view.
>> [snorts]
>> All right. Now, how do we segue to this
next topic? I think we should just make
a hard cut and talk about
bugs. And I would probably tee this up
with my interviews. I think maybe this
is sort of the best way. Maybe set the
stage here. When we sit down to like
record this, we write some notes down of
like what's on our minds, what are we
seeing, what do we think is interesting.
A theme that has emerged is
you know, there's been some
interesting events over the last couple
weeks involving leaked code, Cloud code
source code leaked. Anthropic lawyers, I
am sure I believe it's okay for me to
acknowledge that this happened.
Okay, don't come after me.
>> [snorts]
>> Railway had sort of a
you know, service availability thing
where maybe some data got exposed. Um
there was an Amazon outage earlier in
this month and I think that happened
after our last recording and that that
was an example where they I think
explicitly attributed the downtime event
to AI.
Um
I have this is like less public, but I
have gotten some private security
disclosures from some SaaS products,
just a couple um that I had to go look
to see if they were public and they
weren't, so I'm not going to say
anything.
But only to say that like I'm getting
emails from companies that are like
oopsies.
>> [laughter]
>> You know, um
from this time to this time something
bad happened. And I guess there's
there's a
>> of it is related to AI. That's our
hypothesis.
I have a thing here.
>> yeah. Go ahead. [laughter]
So
um
I think we already discussed in December
and then early January like there's a
influx of activity
um on GitHub. Measurable measurable,
right?
And um
then I talked to a friend of mine
briefly on Twitter who is working
operations on GitHub. And he shared some
nice graphs where it basically showed
like some indicator of like volume that
is that is sort of like a uh
he shared like uh email notification
volume.
And if you look at email notification
volume past December and prior to
December, it's like a huge difference.
So email notification volume just went
up like crazy. And uh one thing that you
will also notice, and he didn't really
confirm that, but you can see that is
like GitHub's availability is down.
And when I when I was uh in in San
Francisco uh recently for a conference
uh AI engine- Pi AI conference, um I
gave a talk on sort of like building
agent stuff and and in private
conversation I had with people around
this conference,
there was a there was a real there was a
real moment where people
reflected on they're shipping too fast.
Like it was like I I felt like half the
conversations were about like shipping
too fast. And and in part I was in these
conversations because I wrote a little
bit about this in a blog before.
And so when I like after the conference
I was like oh, this is really
interesting. Like is this happening? And
I started to I got on Twitter and said
like hey, I want to talk to people who
were like
use agentic coding tools in in in larger
companies. And it's also because like we
already had the issue with with shipping
too fast as well at Air and Rail.
Um and so I had um I think at this point
12 interviews with
people from engineering teams.
Um and and overwhelmingly people
expressed concern with shipping too
fast.
Um Mario Techner from Pi also wrote a
blog blog post recently called uh
slowing the [__] down.
I wrote a blog post also related to that
uh called some things just take time.
And all of this came out of um like
basically this challenge. And and the
way I would describe challenge is that
I loved agentic coding from April to
October
last year. Why? Because I was doing it
more or less alone.
>> [laughter]
>> So I all the time like all my free time
like I I felt I don't have to work as
much anymore
because I can do so much more with the
agents and I just chill in the
playground or spend some time with the
kids. What has happened in December is
that that now everybody wants to ship at
that speed and so now there's no
recuperating of this time anymore. Like
now it's like it's a it's an inherent
pressure that everybody has. Like and
and
there's a there's a one of the fine
companies you're being basically you're
part of a performance review or your
performance measurement is like token
burnage in a way. They're like internal
leaderboards of how many tokens people
spend.
The Nvidia CEO said like a $500,000
compensated engineer should at least
burn $250,000 in tokens. Like it's all
insane.
And so and people don't know how to work
with this. I think quite frankly this is
this is what's happening. And also like
a bunch of
like half
I feel like seven out of 10 people that
I interviewed said
that they had non-engineers
ship PRs. Yeah. And half of them then
said that it's just a huge waste of time
and they don't know how to do it and
it's just re-prompted.
So so that's happening. Basically this
is sort of my my teeing up to the
session is like we are now shipping at
high speeds and haven't really figured
out yet how to deal with it and it's
causing all kinds of problems all over
the place.
Can I make can I just punctuate
something you said there? Look, we've
all seen the GitHub graphs so we all
know the number of commits, you know,
attributed to Claude has gone out of
control.
GitHub about to hit two nines of
availability.
89.9
>> [laughter]
>> But one thing that you just highlighted
for me that I hadn't thought too much
about is when I often saw those graphs I
internalized it as like oh yes, us as
engineers are producing so much. I'm
producing so much, right? That's true
but also who has expanded, right? It it
can be your marketer. It could be, you
know,
it could be your sales person is writing
code now, right?
And then multiplied by by agencies as
well, right? Like does that make sense?
Yeah. And I one I I I see this a little
bit because of Pi
because I contribute to Pi a little bit
and the pull requests that are coming
into the Pi repository are partially not
written by Pi users. They're written by
Open Claude users who tell their Open
Claude to fix a problem and then it
finds it in Pi and sort of submits the
[__] all the way up to the Pi
repository.
So this is this this is happening,
right? And like um
but this is happening companies, too. I
think this is the interesting part. It's
like
there are now um so in one of the more
interesting conversations that I had
with this in these interviews was that
um
I think we have alluded to this before
that like now engineering managers are
shipping code. But engineering managers
shipping code is more or less okay
because they're they're usually within
like you know two or two years of like
last engineering experience. They now
have like people who haven't committed
code in 15 years now shipping code in
companies again
>> [snorts]
>> with all the problems that this causes
because they're basically bypassing sort
of certain quality controls or or at
least like you can imagine like how this
sort of happens.
This is interesting, right?
I think we're now going to learn why why
why we have certain rules in software
engineering quite frankly.
>> [laughter]
>> But yeah.
>> [snorts]
>> Another trend that I think another trend
that I also saw in the last couple
weeks, maybe you saw this too, was that
you know, there was a graph going around
about software engineering hiring going
down, right?
Um but now that has come back up.
You [snorts] know, correlation causation
I have no idea what that means but an
interesting observation that, you know,
perhaps the like value demand around
software engineers is is going higher. I
think it's going to be interesting. Like
one one thing that defines is like
absolutely notice right now is that
historically there were certain things
that are just fundamentally supply
supply constraint. And and the most
noticeable one I think was
security reviews. Like it has already
gotten really bad with hacker hacker
rank I think in the last five years or
so. I remember at Sensio we had to turn
off public hacker rank disclosures
because it was just a honeypot of
of like external
to-do lists coming in. But what's
happening now is that these these tools
make it so easy for you to exploit and
find exploits in software and open
source software or closed source
software.
And because they're
almost entirely driven by machines now,
they are usually correct. So when
someone finds a security problem in your
thingy, it's going to be mostly correct.
And multiple people reporting the same
security problems simultaneously. And
the reason for this is because like once
they have an idea that you should be
going after project, multiple people
might be doing it simultaneously. They
use the same tool and so you get this.
And they are real security issues,
right? They're not like made some [__]
up. They're like actual real zero-day
disclosures or zero-day what do you call
this? Security like anyways, they
the the the security issue gets publicly
disclosed basically more or less. Like
not everybody sent a CVE right now or or
sent like responsibly disclosed security
report. And [snorts] so that has now
increased the pressure automatically.
Um
and I I find this interesting, right?
Because like all this stuff we have
that's going on this will never go away
anymore.
And this will I think this will change
how we make software for sure because it
is so much easier now to find all the
security problems.
And Clankers write really bad code. So
>> [laughter]
>> I'd heard a rumor and and I don't know
if this is a rumor or like a or a
summary of like true things. So like
maybe you know more but like that
some of the frontier model companies one
I think I think this is true is that we
know that they sit on new models. Of
course that's true. They have them
first. They test them first, right?
Um
The
>> [snorts]
>> the question that some people have is do
they intentionally hold them back so
that they give themselves a sort of an
advantage for like a couple weeks or or
months?
That I do we unclear.
>> [snorts]
>> You got a quick you got a quick take on
that one?
I mean we know that they're holding like
I mean that's public, right? But not for
what reason but
two things that we know for sure is that
prior to them releasing they're being
tested, right? That's the thing.
We have already figured out in the past
that once one model app releases a thing
then on the next hour or day the other
one does. So
>> [laughter]
>> the the strategy around it.
And what we also know is that when
Anthropic engineers are going into other
repositories that are not from Anthropic
the Claude attribution does not take
place. We know that from
the Claude code leak. But that also
makes sense. But the reason they are
doing it this way is because they don't
want to disclose
their upcoming models. So there's like
specific prompting in this thing trying
to hide
upcoming model releases. So what I had
heard or whether this was rephrased or
summarized or not was that part of the
reason that these models are are being
held back and you know, I don't know if
this is like, you know, Dario going on
the on the podcast circuit or not is
that were these models to get in the
hands of everyday people they would find
CVEs, they would find vulnerabilities to
such a heightened degree or that they're
observing this internally that
basically, you know,
newer frontier frontier models have the
ability to basically find
vulnerabilities to such a degree that
the whole world would be on fire. Like
everybody would have to stop everything
just to sort of address all these all
these security problems.
You know, some of what you're saying
leads some credence to that. You know,
like it's it's hypothetically true. I
wonder any thoughts on this. So I don't
know about future models. So I have no
idea to which degree future models would
change this game or or what's happening.
But if you take a present-day
state-of-the-art model and you put it
into slightly different harness, there's
some people that built specific
harnesses for security research. They
are shockingly good at finding security
issues. And
and I I I I don't know if it's going to
be significantly worse with future
models.
But I think right now we're we're still
at the point where it hasn't been fully
comprehended yet by everybody how much
has changed. But some people are are
definitely talking about it.
This this there was a talk at the Chaos
Computer Club Congress around December
already where someone showed their
custom harness
and and what they're doing with it and I
know that I used this already on our own
agent sandbox to figure out if if
there's security issues. Like I had the
agent try to figure out its own sandbox
escape and I was I was impressed. I was
really impressed by what it can do
because it's code it has never seen,
right? It's our own [__]
And it went really really really deep.
So I believe it. I'm pretty sure that
if you were to point it at a whole bunch
of legacy systems that are very
critical,
it would not end well for those systems.
I don't know what it means. I really
don't. But um
but I do think it's going to change the
way we do software engineering.
New versions of Windows 95 are going to
be coming out. But but the other thing
is like it's it's not just that they're
necessarily finding security issues.
They're also finding
targets. And I think [snorts] that's
also interesting because I wonder if one
other thing that we have seen
increasingly is supply supply chain
compromises
in in in JavaScript and Python
and some of them are basically earlier
attacks that have already long passed
but they they stole the credentials and
they haven't really deployed anything
yet.
This is
if you talk to the right people they
will tell you this is going to continue
and it will get worse.
And
and a lot of the source of this is
because the cost of running attacks like
this is going down. Also the cost of
running uh fishing campaigns is going
down. Um it's like you can if you have a
good target, you can have an AI
help you tremendously in creating the
perfect attack so that the person gets
fished and lose their credentials. Um
Matt uh Photomatt, what's his name? Matt
Mullenweg uh from WordPress recently
shared a audio recording that he had
with a person that clearly attacked him.
But if you look into the extent by which
they went to recreate Apple sign-in
pages,
that was all specifically made for him,
right? That was not a run-of-the-mill
like fish some Apple credentials. It was
like fish Matt's credentials, right?
Um so it's like there's there's a lot of
wild stuff that's that's going on. Um it
will only get worse. Okay. We've drifted
a little bit into the security, and
let's let's recap a little bit, right?
We talked about there's more bugs,
there's more vulnerabilities, and we
have this like weird we have this cycle
now that we didn't have before where
we're producing more bugs, potentially
producing more vulnerabilities, and also
coding agents can discover and fix those
things. And that's sort of creating this
like cycle that feels um
as long as there's a human in there
somewhere,
uh it's starting to feel very stressful
for them cuz it kind of almost, you
know, necessitates that they go really
fast just to keep up. Is that a fair
kind of summary?
That's the summary, but I think like
there's increasingly I have doubts that
it's actually a good idea to go this
fast. Because if you go this fast,
you're going to make mistakes, and the
agents are better at finding the
mistakes than preventing the mistakes.
You can use an AI quite efficiently to
find all the problems. Surprisingly hard
to use that AI to create code that
doesn't have those problems. And and and
that's a like that's that's a fact right
now. We should talk about the whole vibe
stopping thing, but like the the more
you sort of like don't give a [__] and
just throw lines of code at the wall,
the more mess you create, and the more
security problems you're going to have
in there, and then the more bugs you're
going to have in there, and eventually
machine will not help you dig out of it.
So,
the the the solution has to be a form of
deliberation and slowing down, at least
for the foreseeable future. Dexter Open
Code, I think, has also been a big
promoter of this, and he's talked about
for the whole Open Code team, which I
think
I think it feels like it's pretty big
these days. I can't They announce new
people joining that team all the time.
Um
I'm also getting a sense that there's
like almost like a little bit of a trend
to slow down trend here. We'll we'll but
we're at the beginning of it. It's sort
of unclear. It's unclear whether anyone
is going to listen to it. We're going to
have to kind of come back and see. It's
very hard to actually do that. Because
it's a it's a pressure that comes from
everywhere. So, that's a good segue for
slop theater. Okay.
The pressure.
I I think
um [clears throat]
slop Yeah, so what slop theater? I don't
know. I made this comment, which is we
need a name for this sort of
performative display of, you know,
massive agent parallelization. At the
time I was commenting on a on a project
um a project that showed sort of like uh
like a canvas in which you can slide
around, and I and I counted them.
There's 25 different agent windows. Um
and sort of like an interesting UI GUI
for navigating these windows. And I want
to be clear here. I I don't like bagging
on anybody. I think it's like a cool
project. Okay, I think it's a cool
project, you know? It's It's cool to
make stuff.
Um but if you look a little bit closely,
it's like there's 25 agents. I think
most of them were doing generic research
tasks. They were also all running Haiku,
probably cuz this person didn't want to
blow through whatever they were doing.
>> [snorts]
>> You blow through all their tokens.
And there's a lot of content like this.
Would you agree? Yeah.
>> Right? Like when I say content, I mean
projects, software stacks, skill files,
videos, uh numbers, right? Like just
sort of a almost like a whole cottage
industry of look how many agents I have,
look how much code I've created.
Um
Is that a Is that a fair assessment?
Yeah, I mean we can put some names on
it, right? Like Tree Stack is going
around, and I was looking around, and I
was like like I have I I have no
opinions on Well, the creator of this
thing.
>> [laughter]
>> Can we take a moment here? This is a
popular project. I don't know how many I
you know,
uh I think it's got like 60,000 or more
GitHub stars. Can you take us to uh you
know, what is Tree Stack? So, from what
I can tell, Tree Stack is a bunch of
files that you're supposed to load into
Markdown files plus embedded bash
scripts that you're supposed to load
into your Claude code. And I from from
looking at the code, it really only runs
in Claude code because it's it it like
it hardcodes a whole bunch of paths for
Claude, and
from what I can tell, it's it's
honestly, I don't even know what it is,
but I it sort of I think it sort of
embodies the behavior and intentions of
Y Combinator, or at least Garry's vision
of what Y Combinator looks for into a
virtual Claude code thing. And as for
instance, it has a review skill that I
if you were to tokenize the review skill
with a Tiktoken, it's 16,000 tokens for
the review command. Um it has like a
21,000 token office hours uh
command, which basically creates, from
what I can tell, a virtual Y Combinator
person that you can talk to. I don't
know. It's It's all weird. Um but that's
not the point, really. The point is that
he produces an enormous amount of lines
of code into this thing every day. And
I'm pretty and it is like it is is the
opposite of SaaS engineering.
Like from from at least what what we
would have said up to this point what
SaaS engineering is, right? It's like
you understand what you're doing, you
you optimize for small little things. Um
like lines of code um if anything, like
having less of it is like a pride of
art.
Yeah. And this is just the Yeah.
Can I add on to this? So, my
understanding, and let us asterisk this,
you know, I'm sorry, Garry. I have not
used this. Armen has not used this. I
but I follow I follow Garry, and I and I
I've followed the dialogue around this.
My understanding is that it sort of
codifies different roles,
right? Like there's a CMO skill. As you
commented, there's an office hours
skills. In some ways, it's like taking,
you know, this could be your your Yeah,
your CMO for your startup, right? Like
you said earlier, kind of codifying
things that you might need if you're
running a YC startup, or Garry as the
president of Y Combinator for him to
help scale his business. I want to
comment on one thing, which is he is
using this stack to produce other
software. And so, he's not just slamming
code into this. He's also producing a
lot of code. And I think he's made I
think he his name has come up
particularly because he's commented that
like he's like we're talking millions of
lines of code, or like 1.7 million,
right? Like low millions. Does that
sound right?
>> I don't know how much but I think I
remember that he said like there's some
like 37,000 lines of code a day or
something. The focus has been on lines
of code.
There has not really been a comment on,
say, the architecture is incredible, or
the scalability is great, or the
performance is great, or all these sort
of There's so many attributes of
software, right? To put things into
perspective, there's another sort of
performative slop project uh which I
think we've talked about before, which
is Beats and Gas Town. Beats is
basically an issue tracker for
for Claude, of sorts. That project, if
you go to the repository, has 380,000
lines of code. Gas Town, I think I
measured today, uh has something like it
[snorts] overtook it. It definitely has
more. I think it has something like
400,000 almost. I forgot exactly what
the numbers are, but like significant
numbers of of lines of code for
basically what I can tell is like not
doing all that much. Sentry's entire
Python backend is only 550,000 lines of
code.
And that's This is a company that runs a
[__] ton of revenue, and and like like
is actually doing real stuff with with
with very little code.
Um because you also need to run that
code and understand that code. It's like
there's there's
You don't win any prizes by deploying
that much code. Um
and I think that the problem with this
is I If it works for them, I it's fine,
but the problem is that the We have an
over-reliance in inference right now,
which is which doesn't make any sense at
all. And it really only works because
we're getting tokens all that cheap, and
maybe that will continue, but
one of the other things that came out
from interviewing a bunch of people in
engineering works is like all these
skill files, all these automations are
highly inefficient. Because people don't
even write skills. They have like the
agent write the skills. Like this is the
same thing with Tree Stack. Like these
skills are this crazy because like they
came out of a machine. Like this this
Markdown is because the machine wrote
the Markdown. It's not Garry wrote the
Markdown. It's the machine wrote the
Markdown. The machine doesn't care.
And now we are burning like tokens like
crazy for
with very little efficiency, very little
determinism for something that could
probably actually be a bash script. And
>> So, I want I want to make a comment here
cuz when I saw the CMO skill, I actually
went into Claude,
and I was like, "You're a CMO. Look at
my website. What should I do?" And I
swear the results didn't seem that
different. Um and
uh I I want to make a
I'm not trying to make fun of anybody. I
really am not. I think
I do know that my style,
the way that I work with the agents, is
pretty high level. I'm I'm very much
like, you know, yeah, go take a look at
this, figure it out. I don't use a ton
of skill files. Actually, that might be
a shocking
um declaration here. I do believe a lot
in um
like for a repository, having like
really great uh like agents. md,
claud.md. I do I think that's critical.
And I do have I I do have some skills.
Like I I don't want to say that I don't
have them. But I'm not you know,
juggling like 50 skills.
Um that I've you know, and some of them
are for very specific tasks. I mostly
just kind of vibe and achieve a lot with
just the
you know, with the models as they are.
Um they're pretty good and they can
solve things or I'm like, you know,
"Hey, go research how to do this."
>> [laughter]
>> And then go do it. I find sometimes the
results of that are pretty good.
>> Like I I think I think in practical
terms, the experience that you get from
using an agent is basically being on
drugs. And that's the problem. Like if
you really sit next to someone prompting
their agent, they don't look
particularly healthy. Absolutely not.
>> [snorts]
>> Like
this is
do this. Sit next to another person and
watch them prompt the thing. And it's
it's a bizarre experience. It is a
bizarre experience.
I'm here in an office here. I do watch
people I don't know if I agree, but but
it's also it's also I do want to comment
you operate in a different circle than
me.
No, it's like like the reason I'm saying
it's bizarre is because like if we would
have walked back 3 years and and and
said like okay, this is the this is what
people are doing now. They are swearing
to computer. They're like begging the
thing to do something different. They're
having arguments with a machine that's
basically just a token generator. Like
none of this is natural human behavior,
right? And and this is weird to me
still. Like and I do it too. But like if
you if you read through your own
transcripts at the end of the day, like
some of them are
they actually show signs of bizarness.
Like here's a here's an interesting
thing that someone told me. And I I
reflected on this a lot, which is
if you work in a company and um and and
you sort of divide your day like you and
I see in a company. You're not
necessarily the founder sort of like
works 18 hours or whatever. Like you
start your work at 9:00 and you finish
your work at like I don't know, 4:00 or
5:00 in the afternoon.
And and you're you're working with
multiple agents. What a lot of people
seemingly be doing at this point is like
they're working on all those problems
simultaneously. So they don't work
problem one, problem two, problem three,
problem four. They're like, "Today I'm
going to work on those four problems or
those five problems." They're spawning
five [__] sandboxes and then they're
putting all of their agents in there.
And and here's what happens. And I I
really didn't reflect on this as much,
but they're basically using up five
context windows over the day until
they're 100% like until they're all in
the dump zone. And their own brain also
turns off halfway through the day
because they get really tired. So in the
morning everything works well and then
in the afternoon everything falls apart.
Oh, that's interesting. And the thing is
that if you if you if you don't develop
sort of an an understanding of like your
own unhealthy relationship to the thing
you you you I I I wouldn't call it like
you develop a AI psychosis because I
think like we have already seen like a
version of this which is very clearly
problematic, but like the interaction
that I have at 2:00 at night with my
agent, they don't look healthy. I built
myself a skill that reminds me and it
actually turns off my agent at midnight
now. But this this this whole thing
like if you
This is unhealthy.
Yeah, but I swear to you this is
unhealthy. I'm nervous about this. I
feel, you know, last time we spoke you
made the comment of like, "Ben, I can
see you're you're writing a lot more
code." And that was true. And I think I
had entered kind of an unhealthy zone.
And I look I I read your blog post about
good things take time and like and you
know, comments by Dax and Mario. And
like I slowed down. I I I chose to slow
down. So I don't feel that I have
I don't know that I don't feel right now
that I have this unhealthy relationship.
I don't swear at the model at the agent.
Are you swearing at the agent?
For sure. For sure. Like Oh.
One day the agents are going to rule and
I need I I need them to I'm usually very
polite. You know, when I step off the
bus or the streetcar, I say thank you. I
say thank you to the
to the to the bot as well. So
we're you know, very grateful.
>> Yeah, it's like I I just swear in
general. Like it doesn't necessarily
have to be like a personal swear. But
sorry, I the reason why I said this is
because like I I don't think it's that
far to go from just an unhealthy
relationship with the machine to not
recognizing this and then actually
creating an unhealthy relationship to
the whole thing that you're doing.
Because it feels like you're producing
output. You can argue yourself into
you're producing output, but at the end
of the day it's just performative art.
And like if nobody if nobody checks on
you and tells you that you're doing
something ridiculous
like this there's no no the machine
doesn't tell you. There's no back
pressure. Nobody nobody tells you you're
doing something stupid. Because if you
if you were to do this in an engineering
team with another engineer, they would
go to your manager and say like this is
an idiot. But the machine says none of
it. The machine will be completely
destroyed and like at the end of a
context window it will still comment to
you on your brightness and ingenuity.
It's true. I want to make a comment
here. One, you're helping me see that
there's there is a there is a range of
ways that people work and react with
these things, okay? Um
your comment about drugs is a good one.
We all acknowledge and understand that
like, you know, I could have a beer and
I'm like, "That was a good beer. Good
night. I'm going home." Okay?
>> [laughter]
>> And and unquestionably there are people
who are like, "That was a good beer."
And next thing you know, they've had
five more, right? And as a consequence
of having the second or the third, you
know what? They're going to have the
fourth and the fifth, right? And you can
extend that to many things in our
society, right? What we haven't come to
terms with or we haven't really
acknowledged is AI psychosis literally
could be like we might find a a paper
about this in in 3 months like this is a
real problem, right? And just as people
have unhealthy relationships with
substances, there are people who have
unhealthy relationships with these
tools. And we've we've only just barely
figured it out. What what is what is
weird I think here is that if it let's
take alcohol for instance.
Um
there are always the people who sit at
home and drink alcohol alone at home.
But the the good thing about alcohol is
that a lot of the unhealthy alcohol
experience happens in a community
setting. So there's a chance that
someone is going to catch you. The the
bartender can say, "No more for you."
Exactly. And and it does and the
bartender does. Like in a bunch of
places the bartender is even legally
required to no longer give you alcohol.
Can I just Can I Yeah.
Right today the bartender is GitHub.
>> [laughter]
>> GitHub is just like, "You're all cut
off. You're all You're all cut off."
>> [gasps]
>> Like I I I mean this absolutely serious
because like the the I the one of the
bizarre side effects of having like I I
don't know if I said that said this on
the on the podcast once before, but like
I'm in the weights. I'm literally in the
weights. I got emails from people
because they said like, "Hey, ChatGPT I
have a problem. Who should I talk to?"
And it spit out my name and my email
address. Wait, wait, you said the
weights? What do you mean? What is that?
>> In the weights of the model. Oh, okay.
So it's like I have I've gotten emails
from people because they asked ChatGPT
who they should talk to.
Mhm.
And that has already been a bizarre
experience both before, but it got a
little bit more I think in in in in in
probably like the last 6 months or so.
And and some of the people that sent me
an email and and some I had like a bunch
of calls with like three or four people.
I really felt uncomfortable in some of
those conversations because I felt like
on the other side
they felt like one of them told me about
that they they read my blog post on the
future of programming languages and they
showed me a programming language that
they made for agents. And the way they
described this programming language for
agents sounded like they were literally
on drugs in this very moment. Like none
of it made sense. Every every sort of
story around it was about like almost
like aliens and spaceships.
And I felt deeply uncomfortable because
like that was not at all what I was
expecting from the calls in the first
place, but also because like I like I
felt like the person on the other side
sort of went down a deep rabbit hole and
I shouldn't have done that.
Right? And this is why I said I I I
really think this is a problem because I
already see this like people talking to
me about this Yeah. who are unaware of
it in a way. It's bizarre. I had one
experience like this recently. Like I
mean I guess I'm trying to be a little
ambiguous about this, but they had
commented me that they had a spiritual
relationship with their open clock
instance.
And I you know, there was a little bit
of me nodding politely. You know, I
didn't think too much about it at the
time.
You know, my um but But this is like I
you could be the same. Like I I I don't
I don't think like we're inherently um
like not at risk of falling into this.
And and I like I I wrote this tweet like
last week where I said like I realized
after 1 hour of discussing a problem
with the agent that he was just
or it
was like was actually completely wrong.
Like did the the my initial intuition of
that this problem is not solvable was
correct. But but
>> [clears throat]
>> it took me an hour to go back to my
original position that this is actually
bad trade-off because it convinced me
along the way that there is a way to
solve it. And
>> Yeah. Like after that hour, that was
like that was a real moment of
reflection like I just wasted an hour
because I didn't use my brain good
enough.
And if I would have thought about this
properly it would have been obvious. And
in fact it was obvious because I like
basically what I did is I I went through
some old issues that I had in my issue
tracker for my diffing library. And that
one of the oldest ones was like, "I
would like to change something." A very
specific thing about the trade-offs. And
and I I I I I remember I wrote the thing
and I was like, "Yeah, this is like
maybe it could be solved by I really
don't think so and here's my reason why
I think it can't be solved." And now I
concluded it cannot be solved because
the trade-off is a terrible one. But
that doesn't matter. Like the reason I
put the clanker to this issue was
because like, "Oh, I have the power of
agents now. I'm pretty sure it's going
to figure this out, right? And I had
this 1-hour discussion with the damn
thing. And it's like it that was a
really frustrating experience afterwards
because like
it also made me realize that
like I did not reflect at all on what
kind of hour I was spending this hour of
discussion with the agent. Like none at
all. And and for what?
>> [laughter]
>> For just being lied to.
And you're just being lied to. I'm
cautious that I don't want to make this
like too political. I I suppose it
already has become, but
I am reminded, maybe you saw this on
Twitter, which was um I think it was a
study that came out recently
that was LLMs push sort of
uh people's um politics like ideology
actually a little bit more towards the
center versus social media. All right,
did you see that headline?
>> Yeah, I saw it. Right? Cautiously
optimistic.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, and
and in my mind that makes some sense cuz
it's trained on some median
you know
medium median output, right? Uh sorry,
not trained on it, but you know, it
pushes you towards uh
a consensus often, right? The downside
of that, okay,
is
um well, one, it's probably good for the
politics, all right? It's
Maybe, I don't know. TBD. Um
agree, disagree, write it in the
comments.
Um but depending on the type of work
that you do, I think it's very important
it's it's easy to forget that look,
there is a wide
there is a wide gamut of software
engineering taking place. And people
often, you know, when they talk about
LLMs and coding agents, they often use
the same language for how fantastic they
are for building a marketing website and
then think that that's actually the same
as say building like a brand new
programming language or Linux kernel or
whatever. When the reality is the gulf
is huge. And many of the problems, when
you're tackling hard sort of software
problems and you're building like really
hard things, often the answers are not
in are not in there. They're not in that
LLM. Right? And so you're sort of pushed
towards the center in terms of the
solutions or the debugging. Um do you
agree with this? Yeah. And and those are
like it's very clear that if you do push
an LLM into like a
like [snorts] a state of surprise or I
don't know, like where it sort of
where something happened that was sort
of a little bit too far out of the
probabilities of the how the
conversation would have gone.
The the it sort of the variance of the
output at that point sort of gets wild.
It's like it goes like, or is this or is
the other? Like it is like it goes all
over the place.
Um and some things are actually really
hard and they require like trade-offs
and they require like complex
understanding. And like if that goes
anywhere out of
what is common for an LLM to have an
opinion about, it's going to argue for
anything. Like you can have it you can
make it take any position on a problem.
This is kind of what happened to me.
Like it sort of
like like the reason I even discovered
this like it doesn't make any progress
is because like it completely
contradicted its message from like 5
minutes earlier, right? But it did it
with the same level of confidence it did
before.
Um and the model's getting better. It's
it's less likely to happen, but it it's
like for hard problems it happens all
the time. Thus And
and you saw this with the people that
were arguing all of these mathematical
proofs that were like amateur
mathematicians, right? Like not like
real mathematicians who would like know
something and then use the LLM for it
like support.
Who like thought that they solved one of
the millennium problems
um
by arguing with the machine.
Curious your thoughts on this, that
we've actually reached peak AI coding.
And the reason for that is okay, it's
not because uh
it's not because the skills or the
ability
can't get better. Absolutely they can.
It's that that may not be a desirable
property anymore.
Okay? Like
hear me out. Hear me out on this, but I
suspect you know where I'm going with
this, which is having a, you know, model
coding agent that you know is fallible,
okay? That you scrutinize and that you
sort of like are critical of and you
think more deeply because you're sort of
unsure, you're you lack confidence,
that's good.
Whereas you know, and you could see this
as as
arguably a trend over the last few
months, right? Whereas as they get
better and you start to hand over, you
know, a little bit more, a little more
um
responsibility, that's maybe a lot more
responsibility over to them, um
you do get into this kind of psychosis
or you do kind of believe that they can
take you all the way. And um you might
be worse for it. Like you said, like for
you, it gaslit you into believing a
position that you knew to be you knew to
be false.
Right?
And probably because you'd been lulled
into
you know, because you've had a lot of
good a lot of solid interactions, you've
been lulled into a sense of you know,
confidence with this thing. What do you
think?
I think at least I'm starting to operate
this way, right? I I feel like I just
assume they're fallible and I'm pulling
back on like letting them do their own
thing. Um I don't know if that's
necessarily going to be popular.
So, like this idea like, yeah, maybe,
right? Like maybe you want a fallible
thing because you want to stay in
control. Um
I I feel like this is maybe a little bit
idealistic. I don't I don't know if
that's going to be necessary
>> it's a little idealistic, but I want to
talk a little bit of it sort of uh what
I did the last 2 weeks, which is using
it for open source. And this was in part
a little bit of procrastination almost.
Um I
uh sort of full disclosure, I think like
we we sort of built ourselves into a
little bit of a chaotic situation with
like the main software that we have, the
product. And And who is we here? Who are
you talking to?
>> We We is Arendelle. It's it's me and uh
I think we're counted like three more
engineers.
And um and uh
uh
and I I did some reflection on like, how
did it happen that like that part of the
code base looks so much worse than the
rest of the code base?
And the
the reality is I think it's it's much
easier to build infrastructure and
libraries and like very clearly defined
things than it is actually to build a
product. Because a product is
intertwined like feature flags have
ramifications everywhere. Like if you're
entitled to that feature, like maybe the
help page changes, just your billing
subscription change. Like there's like
all this sort of like relatively complex
state all over the place.
And agents are very good at making a
mess of it. Um whereas if you have a
well-defined library, then it works way
better. And so I decided in anticipation
of like we're going to do a talk on that
topic also at AI Engineer London that I
might want to sort of test drive this a
little bit more practically and also
sort of look into like, how would I
approach this? Like why did it work
better for the library for me than it
works on
on the main thing. And because we don't
have that many libraries at Arendelle, I
also started to contribute to one of my
old libraries I didn't maintain in a
while called uh similar, which is a
diffing library in Rust.
And what I unsurprisingly realized,
which I think a lot of people realized,
is that if you have a really
well-engineered pre-attentive library
foundation, these tools are amazing. So
I have mini ginger and similar, which
are both sort of Rust libraries with a
decent number of users. And it's so
joyful to use. It doesn't even matter if
it's Opus or if it's even I try to push
mini max a little bit. They all are
really good at it because the
foundations of those libraries I
actually spent a lot of time on. And I
like I was proud of like the
abstractions that I found and the
trade-offs that I did. And like working
with these agents on it is a is bliss.
It feels really, really good.
On the other hand, I don't get the same
level of enjoyment of using this agent
on uh our main uh code base because the
authorship features
but they come with the guilt of like
it actually turning more and more into
something that I don't feel happy about.
Right? And actually using an engine like
a using an in I AI agent to
to take out the entropy of the code base
is almost impossible. Um they they
they're not very good at refactoring
when the complexity of a problem is
already too much too much for them. Um
and and that to me was I think a very
interesting observation. Um like like I
had this idea already that it's like
this, but like going with this idea and
then like sort of validating it was
was really quite interesting. Um
so I would make make the argument that
if you want to be very good with an
agent, you probably should handcraft
your code base for really long time
before you let them loose.
Mhm.
Or or constantly refactor with
intentionality.
Um
I I can speak on this a little bit. You
know, Modom is 99% code gen. Not
something I talk about a lot, but it's
actually like when we started the
company, it was a decision we made. It
was a decision we made that we will
build the product this way, but we are
going to sort of build all the
guardrails to actually make it function.
And I will tell you there's a lot of
time spent refactoring.
>> [laughter]
>> I'll give you one example of a problem
that's very real. When you do when you
do get a code base that's reasonably
large, I think that I think we're
talking about a similar problem in the
way that we built Modom is like it's a
mono repo with different packages, like
internal packages and then like
different apps and so actually you know,
the context there is quite large. Drift
Drift is a very big problem,
um I think, with a sufficiently large
code base. And what I mean by drift is
you have some set of assumptions
somewhere and or maybe even values or
variables or whatever. And then you've
got some somewhere else. And the agent
maybe, you know,
>> [snorts]
>> I I think actually here's a really good
here's a really good reason why this
happens less with humans. Writing code
is painful for humans, so they are
incredibly incentivized to go and figure
out where where are the definitions?
Where where is the code that I can reuse
that exists in this app? I know it's in
here. I'm going to go find it, right?
Agents are not incentivized the same way
cuz they can
>> just generate it so quickly.
>> Yeah, there is no back pressure. They
don't care. One of my most memorable
moments of as of engineer was uh when
the Xbox One launched, there was a game
called Halo Master Chief Collection. And
we had the pleasure or I don't know if
it was a pleasure necessarily to work on
the title because um that when I don't
know if you remember this game, but it
was basically it was launching four
different Halo games or five different
Halo games. So, you could launch into
any Halo game from that game. So, you
launched the Master Chief Collection.
You could multiplayer match make against
anything. And then you could end up in a
game session for Halo 2 or like uh Halo
ODST or whatever. I'm a proud owner of
the of this product. Yeah, I'm familiar.
Really? Do you remember how how buggy it
launched?
Um
I know I because I picked it up like,
you know, a couple years later where I'm
like, "Oh, this would be fun."
>> [clears throat]
>> I don't know how much I can publicly
share about this, but like it's it's not
super interesting. What what basically
happened is that there is a hard
problem. It was like it was match making
taking place in the sort of like meta
game and then you launch into the
different titles. And um when
when we started working on this project,
there was already
an understanding that this needs more
people. This this this is a hard like
that it's not reliable enough to launch
in the game.
We need to like get engineer support on
on making this better. And um
and basically what turned out is like
there were like 15 different bulls on
this match maker and like many states
should never have been happening
simultaneously, but they were. Right? It
was like it was like almost LLM
generated code in like prior before LLM
days.
And um and the reason anyone brought
more engineers on this project is
because other people already felt like
this is this is not going anywhere. This
needs proper rethinking. Like someone
needs to spend time just detangling this
mess. And LLMs do not feel this pain.
They will not escalate to you. They will
not tell you that's painful. They they
will just do. And you're also an LLM
looking at this code, right? You you
will you will not say like, "Hey, we
have too many bulls here. We need to
figure out which states are valid and
actually refactor this and and put the
proper proper state machine in."
And for me this was just an important uh
moment in my career to think about this
because of how critical it was for for
me that was really
like a good memory because like this
it was understood that this is a hard
this is a problem that needs to be
solved right now because it will not be
reliable enough to launch the games from
this.
And if when I and I see code like this
all the time now that even in our code
base that I want to get rid of now that
I'm sort of like review it more, but
like clearly I didn't pay enough
attention for like a couple of weeks
like what we actually shipped in there.
And and the agents were absolutely It's
fine with it. It is well I do want to
make a comment here cuz I think we
shared a lot of opinions, but I you
know, I I we should get some tips in
here.
It is like a virus in the sense that,
you know, it grows and it gets worse.
And if you do not constantly kind of
like cut down the wild growth of the
agentic code, it only gets worse from
there.
Do you agree with that? Particularly in
large systems. Yeah. And and I think
like we haven't figured out yet how to
write software that is mostly agent
driven and can grow over a certain size
of complexity. We have not seen that. I
Or I guess maybe it's for you the
example is open call, but there's still
there's still a human driver on that.
Yeah, I don't know if it helps
necessarily.
>> [laughter]
>> Or there isn't.
>> But
but
take for instance sort of what's
happening in some companies now, which
is
um [snorts]
you start to ship at the inference
speeds and then gradually individual
pieces of code become too complex for
humans to understand because like it
just happened, right? So, you you built
yourself into a situation with the
machine that now increasingly engineers
think the solution will be future models
will untangle this mess. Yeah.
>> But if you were to ask yourself like,
"Hey, imagine for a second you would not
get access to whatever any of your
coding agents anymore. Could you
untangle your own mess?" I don't think
they could, right? And that to me is the
wild part. It's like we're getting a
huge dependency on this and we lost the
plot seemingly temporarily, but then
it's like, "Okay, but it's fine because
like in 2 weeks we're going to like
spend 2 days of the week to sort of
untangle the mess." It's like that I
don't think that seems like a pretty big
risk for a business.
>> [laughter]
>> I don't know.
Yeah.
By the way, this was an explicit
question by West Boss, which is cuz we
we're trying to ask people, do we have
any questions and can we somehow somehow
get to them? But he did ask, you know,
"AI makes bad code. I hope people
understand this. We really enjoy this
and we like using these tools." Um
uh Arman may need to see a therapist
about it.
>> [laughter]
>> No, I love them. They're great. But it's
like it's so hard to do it correctly.
But we're yeah, we're very fine line.
We're very objective, I think, and
cynical about their limitations, you
know? And and if it's best to live in
the reality of what of what they could
do cuz then if you if you do want to if
you do want to build, you know, great
products, like you have to actually
understand they function. It does not
does not help to live in some delusional
headspace.
>> [laughter]
>> Uh I think. It's less of a question, but
more can you talk on this, which you've
got into. AI makes bad code, but AI can
fix bad code. Here's a question for you
because when I'm building, well, one you
have to know to ask this question, which
is you stop and you say, "Hey, take a
look at this code base." Right? Identify
patterns for me. Like do you can you,
you know, can you find any problematic
things? Often it can find things. I do
want to make a make a comment here.
Never will this ever be exhaustive.
Okay? And for most like agentic things,
like they do not read every single line
of code and they're going to give you,
you know, all the answers. They
absolutely will not, but they can give
you something. They can give you like
they can find things, right? And this is
again where you have to use your
intuition to decide which of these are
actually important, etc. Um I could
imagine a future. I'm playing devil's
advocate here. I could imagine a future
where actually, you know, they do get
better. There's more context. They can
read more code and we've put more
guidance into the harnesses to, you
know, be more mindful of architecture,
etc. So, what makes you cynical or what
makes you um you know, what is your
position here? In 6 months, will there
be a, you know, robot that just fixes
all the code? So, to go back to my uh
Xbox example,
the [snorts] reason it took us so much
time to get rid of all these bulls, like
I I I I I
I forgot what I called myself at the
time, but like I was like, "My job is to
get rid of bulls, basically." And the
reason it was hard to get rid of the
bulls is because like when you look at
the code as it behaved, there were a lot
of states which the system could be in
that were non-desirable. Like you could
be joining and leaving a lobby
simultaneously, which was unintended for
the multiplayer game,
but the system was capable of being in
that state. And so there there were
invalid states that the system permitted
that made everything complicated. So,
the whole goal was like to figure out
like what possible states should this
lobby match making system be in? And so
the complexity was not figuring out how
it should be. Like how to map all of
those interactions that you have, which
ones are valid, which are not valid and
taking into this. And an LLM is actually
surprisingly incapable of doing this job
because they're looking at the code and
they're like, "Okay, all of these things
are valid. So, I'm just going to
continue leaving them all valid." Like
because like you need to bring some
clarity into the whole thing and say
like, "Actually, this shouldn't happen.
This shouldn't happen. This shouldn't
happen. This shouldn't happen." But but
to for you to even be able to give that
input, you need to understand your
problem. You need to like this is this
is very very hard to do with an LLM
because they all if anything, they are
willing to be backwards compatible to
ridiculous degrees. Because they are
machines and because they can read so
much context and determine, you know,
with some reasonable clarity what is
functioning. They don't interpret the
same problems and they don't see it.
They don't, you know, there's also like
a boiling they don't understand the
boiling frog problem for themselves.
>> Yeah. Right? Um humans have that
problem, too. I don't know that it's
like a big difference. It's just I think
what we're what we're getting to, what
you're highlighting here, is just the
scale of of a human, you know, they
write some code. Eventually, you know,
because they're not they don't have a
million tokens. A million
you know, their context window is so
much smaller. They often reach the
barrier of of what that problem is
earlier.
>> Yeah, then they go for a walk and drink
a coffee and they talk to a coworker and
like there's there's there's stuff
happening. But but an LLM can produce
5,000 bulls and be like, "I got this."
But it may reach a breaking point. But
there's another thing. It's like if a if
a human writes code, like the canonical
example for me of like ridiculousness
that can that LLMs do is like um we have
a we have a system internally called
feature flags. Everybody has it, right?
It's like if and it's it works like
this. It's like if feature enabled, do
some stuff, right? And um early on I
caught the damn thing basically reading
so the the thing is like read the read
the user state config and if it fails
fall back to default. And it did it on
two layers. It's like read the config
but then fall back. I would have never
written this code because like if I
cannot read the user state from that
moment it's pure chaos. Anything can
happen, right? I could be like because
like there is no reasonable default.
It's like either the user is there or
the user is not there. Like if the user
is not there
we should panic.
We should abort right now.
Propensity to crash is actually a good
thing in many many
in lots of software and I do agree that
LLMs really do not like that. They love
to I think we've all seen this. They
love to try catch and basically stay
alive as long as they can.
>> but as a result they're making the code
more complicated because all of a sudden
it's like oh yeah, now of course like
this could fail and then this would
happen. And then like if you actually
have a discussion with an LLM where they
already created a bunch of code where I
was like I was like yeah, of course it
could happen because like we might not
load this thing. It's like this like
Okay, the world is on fire if I'm not
loading this thing. [laughter] All of
this makes sense for me but my question
and I'm I'm playing devil's advocate
here is
but that's how they operate today. You
know, Opus 75 is going to solve all
that. But but the thing is like they're
creating this chaos today, right? So if
you don't stop the chaos now you're the
the they're refactoring the future that
gets rid gets gets rid of all of those
possible states that your system can be
in is
probably an NP-hard problem is my guess.
Because
like the the only way to reduce
like you can build software in a way
that you say like I will definitely
refactor this in a month. But but you're
going to write that software already in
a way where you have an idea of what the
refactor will be.
Usually.
I've thought of this before. But if you
like [__] it, I'm doing everything at
all you just have chaos and then you're
like you know the only way doing is like
rebuilding it. And if a solution is like
have Opus 7 rebuild the whole thing from
scratch.
But anyway, [laughter] I
I talked to someone that literally said
like he's going to retain all their spec
files
because they don't trust the code that's
being generated right now but they trust
the spec files. So they're just going to
put the agent back to the spec files to
rebuild it with like
I don't think that's going to work but
like maybe it does but
maybe this will work better than looking
at the code that's a mess.
Uh yeah, that's like a weird stack of
patches. Um [laughter]
I just I have very low trust that this
that you can out-slop yourself with
future models. I just and and to be
clear, that has not been the case so
far. If you if you started with like a
sloppy code base with Sonnet 3.5 in like
May last year and you're going to put
like uh like a state-of-the-art model on
it now to like make it perfect it's it's
not going to work if that problem was
already too big. Or how about this, you
know
you're going to get beaten by somebody
who did this work if you're getting into
the like software business, you know,
kind of entrepreneur thing which a lot
of people are attaching to this.
Um
yeah, like I think a lot of these
problems were always they're just
software they're the fundamental
software engineering problems that
existed with humans they're just
exacerbated with agents. Just cuz you
have agents doesn't mean that
refactoring is bad or pointless.
That [laughter] is not true.
Um [snorts]
No, but it just takes energy. And it
takes you.
You have to be involved. Like the the
agent doesn't do it on their own. That's
the problem. I was writing down by the
way a um you know, Brave New World for
so many for so many people but I was
writing down for Modem kind of like uh
um like a draft of some like engineering
discipline rules. Fundamental rule is
you are responsible. There is no like
Claude code oh, Claude code did this.
That language is not allowed in the
company. You did this.
Okay?
So
that's something I think I would love to
see more of.
This is a whole debate where people are
like did I build this or did the agent
build this? And people are like well you
should be honest that the agent built
it.
That cuts both ways. I think I would
prefer
the human
to acknowledge that they built this.
You know? At at least if it's true and
honest. What I don't want is I don't
want this like uh this you know, this
box product from Anthropic or or ChatGPT
built this.
Well, why the hell am I talking to you?
So
yeah.
>> Well, I think like the relationship that
you have with the PRs that you merge is
just wrong. Yeah. Because even if you
merged it you don't remember [__] No.
>> That's basically what's happening right
now. Like people they they historically
I think you would look at Git blame and
say like oh yeah, that person did it.
Like I want to talk to that person. And
and like I I will throw nobody under the
bus because I've been in the same
situation but it's like people routinely
now point people at like hey, you
shipped this how did it work? And the
only response from everybody in the room
is like let me talk to my client current
figure this out.
>> [laughter]
>> To be fair though in organizations often
times you you know, if you're a manager
you'll be like well, let me go talk to
this other person. Like there's you know
there are there are analogs for this. Um
but this feels like we a good place to
at least get to kind of the end here.
We should do the predictions though.
We should still do predictions. I have a
question that I'm very excited to ask.
>> [laughter]
>> Do you but I don't know if I should go
last or not. Um but I have one. I have
one. You want me to go? You want to go?
Yeah, you need to go first. Okay.
I actually this is a good it's a good
follow on to this. So yeah, I've been
doing more open source. I have you know,
I have an open source project with
contributors and that's that's Hunk and
that's exciting and I would say it's
very obvious you know, one it it is a
code gen project. I think
I like to think of a higher quality than
most code gen um projects. One of my
indicators for whether uh a vibe slop
project is any good is go through the
PRs and see how many are tagged with the
word refactor.
Okay?
What do you think?
You know, like is anybody on that
project actually taking a moment to
think about you know, sort of
restructuring or rewriting or whatever,
you know? That's that's something.
So hold on.
You got to go check this out?
No, no. Uh
I would I would just like okay, I want
to know how many PRs are against
T-stacks that have the word refactor in
it. And so far it seems to check out
because it's only five.
>> [laughter]
>> Out of how many?
Um out of um
700. No, sorry. I can't I can't do math.
Out of 600. Okay, five out of 600 with
the word refactor in it. Seems a little
low from my professional experience. You
can um agree or disagree. Um
but this was just a thought I had which
is like should I trust this vibe slop
project? Okay? Go look and see what kind
of level of care is taking place. The
other part of this what why I brought
this up is I have experimented with
intentionally writing my PRs or even my
comments to be very explicit that hey, a
coding agent did this. Like generated
this comment or generated this PR. So
you know, I have like a
I think I did this as a skill file like
you know, this comment was generated
with
open code or generated with Pi with this
model. Okay? Um often the model is
wrong. So yeah, you actually getting
this getting this answer accurate needs
some more work to be clear. Um
where pros and cons to this. Here's
where I'm going with this. Do you think
in the future people will discriminate
against code submissions based on what
model or and or coding harness generated
them? All right?
>> Yeah.
100%. Yeah. And
so one is that one of the arguments that
Peter originally did on open source is
that he had this rule he will not let
Slopus in his code base.
What? Slopus? What?
Slopus. [laughter]
Slopus.
>> Slopus.
So Opus was he was like Opus bad, Codex
good. So he's like because he can't
trust that the PR doesn't come from
Opus. He will redo it with Codex.
Um but there's a
I I think like there's actually a
legitimate reason of why people will
discriminate because
I think it's increasingly bad form of
putting a PR up that doesn't have the
agent run PR review locally first. It's
like you should if if the machine
produces [__] and then it should at
least have also done like all the
reviews before it goes up, right? It's
like if you if you hypothetically you
have this company that only uses Codex
models and it could rely on one review
tool then it would be an expectation
that by the time the pull request is up
it has passed um the local reviews. But
then you would need to have some
evidence that it actually happened.
Theoretically. You could obviously like
validate it on the server and sort of
like run it again and see like it
doesn't produce any more comments. But I
think that this is this is going to
happen for sure. Woof, I so I didn't
know about that comment um from Peter.
Yeah, that is discrimination. Like I if
I thought about what would that look
like in in other domains, you know, like
I'm not going to have any hockey player
that uses uh you know, CCM products.
Okay, if you're not from Canada you
maybe that doesn't make any sense for
you. Okay, but sort of like you know, or
like under you know,
uh
this person uses Under Armour so they
must be an inferior kind of like
basketball player.
Right?
Now you can be like well, that's silly
Ben. You're talking about brand here.
Well, I don't know that it's that
different frankly.
You know, like
Codex versus Opus one we've already
established that you can get into some
kind of level of psychosis. So your idea
about you're already getting now into a
weird superiority of whatever, right?
You can use any model and achieve
garbage. I think a great programmer
armed with you know, probably like a you
know, open source model can be actually
create great stuff, right? How do you
know? It seems It seems discriminatory.
So, I just think it's going to happen. I
think it's going to happen. I don't
think it's a good idea. I think it's
just
It's too obvious, you know, wait it
People will do that. So, I The The
reason I got to this question is I I was
experimenting with declaring what I'd
used to generate it. And now I start to
think
oh, I should ask other people to do
that, too, so that I know how they're
coming here. I'm like, wait a minute. I
think that's actually just taking us
into more slot because now you're saying
you're saying
I'm going to inherently trust this pull
request more if it came from this model.
And by the way, you cannot today, you
cannot you know, verify or or truly
communicate. That's also like a fun
thing. So, someone could like use a
Chinese model and be like, oh, I this
was actually generated with
>> [laughter]
>> with Codex.
Um
that's [snorts] an interesting one that
we'll probably see in the future. Sort
of like a model verification. I bet you
someone's going to build that. Do you
know what I mean? But that that brings
us to the question I have for you. Sort
of a prediction kind of question, which
is All right. So, are we are we done
with this? Yes, discrimination.
I think yes, discrimination is going to
happen. It's already may already be
happening. May may already be happening.
But the other sort of kind of related,
but that was the question I wanted to
ask originally, is that
at the moment I think we're um
we're sort of like not quite peak
uh VC funding of AI models yet. So,
right now tokens are cheap. And I don't
know if it's going to continue or not. I
I
don't take a view on the state of the
bubble. But um
what happens as a result of this right
now is that companies and individuals
are sort of kind of free to buy whatever
the hell they want. I just like In In
very few companies today is there
actually a situation where you're forced
to use one thing only. Like the the
standard deployment right now is either
there's a magic router in the company
that it dishes out any kind of token to
you.
Or you're you're busy buying one of
those max or plus or pro whatever
licenses and you're
you're like go off. And then there's
also no enforcement of anything. You can
use it with open code. You can use it
with Codex. You can use it with Pi. You
can whatever. There's like millions of
these coding agents.
My question is, do you think
that security teams, compliance teams,
or maybe even engineering teams
themselves will want to force down a
more coherent coding agent and model
deployment in a company? Or do you think
this wild west of everybody does
whatever the hell they want
um
will continue? These aren't really
monthly predictions, but well
>> [laughter]
>> That's okay. I'm I'm just enjoying I'm
just enjoying the conversation.
I think the answer is unquestionably
yes, just based off of, you know,
um Look, I've had to I've had to answer
bunch of security surveys to to sell our
product. And naturally enterprises will
demand and um you know, cohesiveness
around this. I I guess you could also
say this ties to last question where it
is like you could see some
discrimination here, too, right? Um
I don't know that Do you disagree? I
I I I think that there is like two
forces at play, right? Like individually
engineers probably want to use whatever
they want to use.
On a business side and even on I think
like a engineering team side. Like if I
Imagine you're like a Imagine for a
second you're like a VP of something and
you have like 150 engineers underneath
you. There are I think a bunch of
arguments of why you probably want the
same coding model and the same security
review tools and the same
like skills across the whole thing
because like there's a risk of prompt
injection and there's a risk of like
token leak like not token like I'm like
I'm off token leakage, right? It's like
there's a bunch like these things
actually do a lot. You like
Historically, whenever teams got large,
like their computers got locked down in
ever more exciting ways, right? It's
like all of a sudden you can't plug a
USB device in there anymore. Or you have
to go through like a protected VPN.
There's a
Like all of this has happened in the
past. Why would it not apply to the
coding agent? I guess it's sort of this.
But then the engineering teams hate it,
right? So, I I think that I think this
is an example where you and I are a
little out of touch cuz we experiment
with so much and we're we have small
companies where we can do whatever and
and this is why news will come out where
it's like Cursor added a billion dollars
in ARR over January because that's
actually the model that most companies
want. They want They want one business,
one relationship. They want to build
their whole tool chain around that. You
know, and that's actually um that's like
the primary case, you know? Um So, I
just think I think that's even true
today. I don't even think it's like
changed or or like us
playing around with Claude and Pi and
all this stuff.
>> Yeah? So, I I don't like one of these
interviews that I did was a fascinating
was with a
with a team I really don't want to like
be too detailed about it, but let's just
say this. They're embedded They're the
team that got acquired embedded in a
much larger enterprise where they have a
very strict rule about um like IP and AI
engineering. I like how you I like how
you've been vague so that this can only
be one of like three companies, but go
ahead.
>> [laughter]
>> But um
because they basically have a the the
the prior leader of that company that's
now embedded in a small team in a
company like small got acquired by big
corp was like, you know, [__] it. We're
just I encourage every engineer who's
working here to just pay out of their
own pocket for like like Claude max
subscription. And we're just going to
ignore the rules that tell us we can't
use it because it's nonsense.
And this was not the first person that
told me that. I Right? It's like there's
one rule in a company and then people
are like, but it's
it's too stupid. So, I'm just going to
do what makes me most productive, which
is I'm paying out of my own pocket for
my favorite engineering tool. Ah. Oh,
oh, cuz I see where you're going with
this, which is
okay, you can you can have licenses for
everybody, right? And you can say this
is the tool chain, but then it
but then are you actually say putting up
firewall rules like actually preventing
access from people using their own
tools? Is that where you were kind of
taking this? Yeah, I mean like this is
an example of this, right? It's like
like how far will you go or for how far
should you go and like how far do you
have to go? I don't know. But they're
they're like the two forces sort of
clashing together, I think, right now.
Like the the CSO who wants to or CIO who
wants to like keep everything sort of
neat and tidy. And then every engineer
is like oh, I found this awesome model
in China.
I I [snorts]
I think 100% this is going to happen
because if you if you look at LLMs and
coding agents as employees and many
people are starting to do that. Well,
you also don't let random people walk in
and just kind of like, you know,
um submit code or throw up PRs. You
don't. So, people are are throwing
tremendous agency at these coding agents
to basically take actions as employees.
And if that is true, yeah, I think that
they will get locked down. You
I I don't know if this is one of the
reasons you brought it up, which is just
like, you know, yeah, there's there
could be an exfiltration risk. There
could be security risks. There could you
know,
You see what I'm saying?
>> [snorts]
>> But we'll we'll see it in the next Like
where will it move now? Like are we
going to lock down more? Are we going to
like open up more? Like what what's
what's going to happen here?
You're looking for the headline of say
Oracle, you know, Oracle decides
ChatGPT only for the whole company. Will
we see a headline like that? Yeah.
Oracle maybe not the best example, but
Ooh, not next month, but I think this
year.
We just saw a
a model provider named as a supply risk
for the entire US government.
Um That's true.
>> [laughter]
>> Narrowly avoided for the moment, I
guess, because of a court order, but
yeah. Yeah.
So, I I think that's inevitable. I have
one more topic and it's related to the
discrimination thing.
Discriminating against models. I I've
had this thought recently a few times.
One of the reasons, man, that I really
love computers and and building stuff
like with code for me, um is that you
know, historically you didn't need a lot
to get a lot, right? You if you have a
computer and you got a terminal and a
code editor, you know, sure. You got a
faster computer, you could compile
things a little faster, right? But for
the most part Yeah.
you know,
cheap a relative Yeah, relatively cheap
especially if you looked at like desk
you know, desktop computers over the
last few years were getting dirt cheap,
but super powerful. You know, there was
a real even playing field. And now today
I I cannot remember a time in my career
in which there's such a disparity
of availability of tools. And that comes
in two forms. One is the obvious one,
which is LLM tokens, okay?
And this was a question that somebody
asked, which was how much do you spend
on tokens? And I know for me,
you know, I have a couple subscrip- I
have a bunch of subscriptions. And I
think that's also ridiculous. Okay?
Across all of these tools, just to
quickly answer this, I don't know. I'm
probably spending $500 a month USD. That
is subsidized token spend. I'm surely
spending way more tokens than that.
Right? Probably in the thousands. Uh not
completely off the wall, but quite a
bit. Do you want to quickly make a
comment on that? Just to sort of for the
sake of answering the question.
>> uh so, I probably spend around $500.
That's my guess.
Two two two and a half subscriptions
usually. And just to be clear here, you
know, both Arman and I have like, you
know, we have startups. We could justify
this to ourselves. We have a lot of, you
know, we have um funding where we can
rationally make that argument. It's
pretty easy for us.
I don't know if it's rational.
>> [laughter]
>> I don't I know it be rational.
First of all, what let's just
acknowledge that. $500 a month roughly
for both of us. That's a lot, man.
That's a lot. Okay? Never nothing like
that. And obviously,
not everyone is in the position to do
that. Um
hat tip here to open code go, which I
think is pretty interesting in which
they introduce like a $10 a month plan,
which is sort of using like cheaper
open-source models.
Um
and I and I think that they
expressly make this comment, which is
that about it is about they're they're
sort of exploring
making it more accessible to like a
wider range of people outside of like
whatever the hell we're doing.
Um and I I I think that's cool. I think
that's also one of the first public
acknowledgements of this. Probably not
the first one, but a very interesting
approach where it's like segmenting in
some ways and acknowledging that there
is like a really big divide here.
Um Yeah, so that's just
that's just on the model side. Okay? I
know I've been talking here for for a
bit. So, that's one.
Tokens, big big difference. The second
thing is the fundamental compute. I have
always bought like a sort of a min-max,
you know, what do I think is a good deal
on a computer. I hang on to it for a few
years, you know. Only in this era only
in this era this is the first time I've
like invested in a pretty beefy MacBook,
right? With a lot of RAM because I if
you're doing a lot of multi-agent stuff,
um right? You're going to you can easily
easily
um stretch out that RAM or stretch out
that computer the number of cores that
you're running, right? And so, there
just on the on the device side on the
device side I'm spending more. So,
you're seeing it in like multiple
multiple levels, right? And then of
course, you have people who are also
renting out machines. I've got a second
machine that I also run. So, we're
talking about two beefy computers. Yeah.
Okay, I'll turn it over. Thoughts on
this?
I also now always buy the most expensive
Mac. Um Did you always do that? No. And
it started with AI. Like the I bought
the topped out Mac one Pro M1 Pro Mac
Book M1 Pro initially because it was
around the time when um initially it
wasn't even like LLMs it was diffusion
models. They were really really popular.
I was like, I want to
I want to dive into ML. Um so, I was
like, I I need to have like
like
something my metal runs um
because like obviously there's there's
no quota on Mac. But like that was a big
reason for me and like it was the same
thing here. It's like, okay, the the the
the my Mac is now old enough that the
battery doesn't last that much anymore.
Um and they just released the uh
whatever the M5 thing is now. And I
again bought a fully maxed out 128 GB
RAM thing because like I want to run
some models locally. And the thing is
like I don't even care about the coding
models locally or something like this,
but I actually run quite a few things
that use models on my computer now. Like
for instance, I I I use uh voice
transcription and I use voice
transcription at scale. Like I download
YouTube videos and other videos to
transcribe them in the background and to
have AI summarize them
because I find that to be an enormous
useful source of
um finding interesting things. Like I
take talks
and have sort of like put them in the
context of a thing that I'm doing.
And I can do that because like it's
cheap. Like I wouldn't I I would feel
bad about it if I would throw this on an
online like service that charges me a
lot of money for it, but now it's like,
okay, it's just a little bit more
electricity, but like I have basically
already paid for it. Yeah, but I like in
my mind I've already paid for it. And
because I have already paid for it, I
don't have to think about it anymore. A
maxed out machine in 2026 is a hell of a
lot expensive than even just 2 years
ago. Is that also fair? Right?
>> Yeah. If you want to turn this into a
prediction, which is like, is this trend
going to continue?
Or do you think we're going to go back
to
you know what? Anybody armed with a with
a, you know,
Linux machine can compete at the same
level as anybody else.
>> So, maybe
the way I was starting to think about
this is that, okay, on the one hand this
is happening. Right? So, it's like I
think
we're spending way more on computers, on
tokens, and all of this. And I think we
can make an argument that they're more
effective and more more more productive.
On the other hand, given all the
conversation that we had previously
about shipping at inference speeds,
it's very hard to argue that this actual
increase in productivity actually is can
be measured in like increase of
productivity on an economic level. Like
if you were to actually like I I said
this last time is like a lot of my token
spend actually went in side projects.
Right? It's like if I were to like no
longer transcribe YouTube videos in the
background, I would probably make about
the same amount of money. I would
probably add the same to the industry,
right? It's like there's it's like it's
personal curiosity in some ways. Like I
I feel like it's a way for me to like
discover content stuff like this, but
it's like my world would not
tremendously change if I wouldn't be
able to do that anymore.
And so like on a very fundamental level
I probably don't have to do all of that.
Right? It's like I I I probably could
even make an argument that this is
probably insane.
>> [snorts]
>> And even on the transcribing, but
maybe to put this more concretely, like
if you've got like, you know, a laptop,
um
I spoke to an intern candidate for whom
they did an internship and they were
given like a pretty low-spec machine,
you know, with uh let's say like 16 gigs
of RAM. Crazy that's low-spec now. But
they felt that they that actually kind
of held them back because their ability
to do like multi-parallelizing agent
work was pretty was significantly
curbed, right? And so, I know you're
talking about like 128, but let's just
say like now.
>> like initially makes it better engineer
because of your resource constraints,
right? Like resource like resource
constraints make give you ingenuity. I
agree.
So, like
I would say like, all right, this is
justified by a lot of people don't have
like good computers, right? But like I I
wouldn't necessarily say that that's
inherently a problem. And um I think
part of your argument connects to what
we said earlier, which is like right
now,
you might be in an advantage by be
by being curbed,
>> [laughter]
>> right? Well, you need to have access to
them, but I don't know if you need to
have access to that many tokens. And and
I find it's like I know for a fact that
I don't across all the subscriptions I'm
using, I'm not hitting any limits any or
close to limits. I could pay the half
amount uh on Tropic subscription I would
not hit my limits either. I I will make
a comment here actually. So, I do like
to I use all of the harnesses. Um I have
like a I have like different windows
with different harnesses and I have one
one like TMUX window with open code and
Kimiko 2.5. Um pretty good. Pretty good.
I don't think it's like on the level of
the frontier models, but you can achieve
a tremendous amount. And I this is
through open code Zen, which is like
their router thing. I think I threw up
like 50 bucks up there, you know, like a
few months ago. I don't know. Seems to
be
like
there are models right now. I
I guess my prediction is I don't this is
a trend right now, but I don't know I
actually I don't know if that's going to
continue. I actually do take the
position that open-source models, etc.
are continuing to get better. And I
I guess I refuse to bet against
computers getting faster and cheaper if
that makes sense. I'm never going to do
>> right now I think we can you can bet on
inflation going up and so as a result
everything will be cheaper.
Yeah. [laughter]
Well, I don't know. It's like there's
there's a there's a there's a certain
argument to be made I think that
um the
the fundamentals of the world economy
right now are like changing and like and
not even like from a political
perspective. Like everything is changing
because like AI sort of like throws like
how large of an engineering team being
questioned. Like all of this is sort of
rejigging.
And so like it's very hard for us to
make long-lasting predictions of any of
this, I think. All right, so let's let's
let's let's end here with a very yes or
no prediction. Will the price of RAM be
higher or lower in 1 month?
>> [laughter]
>> Lower.
But the value of the US dollar also
actually that's a good question.
Also lower.
>> [laughter]
>> So, against measured against gold,
I don't know.
Oh, it's a bit of a cop-out answer. All
right. Well, I guess we'll find out in a
month. No, it will be lower. Lower
measured in US dollars the price of RAM
will be down. Hey, man, this was fun. I
think that this was pretty good.
>> Do you think it's up or down? Google's
discovered some kind of compression
algorithm. So, maybe we don't need so
much RAM and the price of RAM has come
down. I don't man, I just see these
headlines. I don't know. I I have zero
opinion on this.
Um but let's say if you're cynical, you
know, I guess I'm I'm cynical about the
state of the world right now. So, I'm
going to say higher.
>> [laughter]
>> All right. I hope I hope you're right. I
hope you're right. Um
well, hey, this was a lot of fun. And um
I don't know if there's a good wrap-up
on this other than um
I hope
>> Send us questions.
Yo, yeah, send us questions and I hope
that this dialogue is all is healthier.
I hope that we've all slowed down and
everything's healthier in a month. So,
let's find out. That that would be nice.
All right. Bye.
Bye-bye.